clinic: add Troubleshoot TiDB cluster using PingCAP Clinic and PingCAP Clinic Diagnostic Data (#1890)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/clinic-user-guide.md

    ```

2. Check the user's access of *Role* and *Cluster Role* :

    ```shell
    kubectl describe role ${role_name} -n ${namespace}
    kubectl describe clusterrole ${clusterrole_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

### Step 2: Login to Clinic Server and get an access token

An access token is used to identify the user and ensure that the data from Diag is uploaded to the organization created by the user. You need to log in to the Clinic Server to get a token.

#### 1. Sign up and login to the Clinic Server

Go to [Clinic Server](https://clinic.pingcap.com.cn/portal/#/login) and select **Sign in with AskTUG** to enter the AskTUG community login page. If you do not have an AskTUG account, you can create one on that page.

#### 2. Create an organization

You need to create an organization after your first login. Type the organization name to create one. After creation, you can get the token to upload data to the organization.

#### 3. Get an access token

To get a token, click the icon on the Cluster page, and select **Get Access Token For Diag Tool**. Make sure to copy and save the displayed token information.

![An example of a token](/media/clinic-get-token.png)

> **Note:**
>

> > For security reasons, Clinic Server only displays the token once on creation. If you have lost it, you can delete the old token and create a new one.

Author: 登陆 Clinic Server 并获取 token 的步骤：
1. 登陆 Clinic Server
2. 创建 Organization
3. 进入创建的 Organization 页面，然后获取这个 Organization 的 token。token 是用来在部署 Diag 时使用的

Diag client 的获取方式是在 “Step 3: Deploy a Diag Pod”

    ```

</div>
<div label="Offline deployment">

If the cluster cannot access the Internet, you can deploy Clinic Diag with the following step.

1. Download the Clinic Diag chart.

    If the cluster cannot access the Internet, it is unable to install Clinic Diag and other components by configuring the Helm repo. You need to download the chart files on a machine has Internet access and then copy them to the cluster.

    To download Clinic Diag chart files, you can use the following command:

    ```shell
    wget http://charts.pingcap.org/diag-v0.7.1.tgz
    ```

    Copy `diag-v0.7.1.tgz` to the cluster and unpack it to the current directory.

    ```shell
    tar zxvf diag-v0.7.1.tgz
    ```

2. Download the Clinic Diag image.

    You need to download the Clinic Diag image on a machine that has Internet access and then use the `docker load` command to load the images to the cluster.

    The Clinic Diag image is `pingcap/diag:v0.7.1`. You can download and archive the image with the following command:

    ```shell
    docker pull pingcap/diag:v0.7.1
    docker save -o diag-v0.7.1.tar pingcap/diag:v0.7.1
    ```

>     Then, copy the archive to the cluster and use the `docker load` command to load the image to the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Then, copy the archived image to the cluster and use the `docker load` command to load the image to the cluster:
```

    ```shell
    docker load -i diag-v0.7.1.tar
    ```

3. Configure the `values-diag-collector.yaml` file.

    Modify your access token in the `${HOME}/diag-collector/values-diag-collector.yaml` file.

    Other configuration parameters such as `limits`, `requests`, and `volume` can be modified according to your needs.

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > To get the token, please refer to [Step 2: Log in to the Clinic Server and get an access token](#step-2-log-in-to-the-clinic-server-and-get-an-access-token)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > To get the token, refer to [Step 2: Log in to the Clinic Server and get an access token](#step-2-log-in-to-the-clinic-server-and-get-an-access-token).
```

4. Install Clinic Diag.

>     Install Clinic Diag with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Install Clinic Diag using the following command:
```

    ```shell
    helm install diag-collector ./diag --namespace=tidb-admin
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > The `namespace` should be the same as TiDB Operator. If TiDB Operator is not deployed, please deploy TiDB Operator first and then deploy Diag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > The `namespace` should be the same as that of TiDB Operator. If TiDB Operator is not deployed, deploy TiDB Operator first and then deploy Diag.
```

> 5. (Optional) Set the persistent volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. (Optional) Set a persistent volume.
```

>     This step can set the volume for Diag to persist its data. To set the volume, you can set `diag.volume` with the volume type in the `${HOME}/diag-collector/values-diag-collector.yaml` file. The following examples are PVC and Host:

Reviewer: ditto

    ```
    # Use PVC volume type
    volume:
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: local-storage-diag
    ```

    ```
    # Use Host volume type
    volume:
      hostPath:
        path: /data/diag
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - It is not supported to set the volume on multiple disks.

>     > - Support any type of StorageClass.

Reviewer: ditto

</div>

> <div label="Least privileges deployment">

Reviewer: When a noun is used as a modifier, it should be singular rather than plural.
 ```suggestion
<div label="Least privilege deployment">
```

> **Note:**
>

> > Least privileges deployment is to deploy Diag to the namespace of the cluster and Diag can only collect the data in the namespace but not across the namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Least privilege deployment is to deploy Diag to the namespace of the cluster so that Diag can collect data only in the namespace but not across namespaces.
```

1. Check the privilege of the user.

>     Least privileges deployment creates a *Role* with the following access. The user to deploy Diag needs corresponding permissions to create a *Role* of this type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This deployment method creates a *Role* with the following access. The user to deploy Diag needs the corresponding permissions to create a *Role* of this type.
```

    ```
    Resources                               Non-Resource URLs  Resource Names  Verbs
    ---------                               -----------------  --------------  -----
    serviceaccounts                         []                 []              [get create delete]
    deployments.apps                        []                 []              [get create delete]
    rolebindings.rbac.authorization.k8s.io  []                 []              [get create delete]
    roles.rbac.authorization.k8s.io         []                 []              [get create delete]
    secrets                                 []                 []              [get list create delete]
    services                                []                 []              [get list create delete]
    pods                                    []                 []              [get list]
    tidbclusters.pingcap.com                []                 []              [get list]
    tidbmonitors.pingcap.com                []                 []              [get list]
    ```

> 2. Deploy Diag with the following `helm` command, and the latest Diag image is pulled from the Docker Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Deploy Diag using the following `helm` command, and the latest Diag image is pulled from the Docker Hub.
```

    ```shell
    helm install --namespace tidb-cluster diag-collector pingcap/diag --version v0.7.1 \
        --set diag.clinicToken=${clinic_token} \
        --set diag.clusterRoleEnabled=false
    ```

>     If TLS is not enabled in the cluster, you can use the `--set diag.tls.enabled=false`, then the created *Role* will not have the `get` and `list` privileges of `secrets`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If TLS is not enabled in the cluster, you can add the `--set diag.tls.enabled=false` flag, then the created *Role* will not have the `get` and `list` privileges of `secrets`.
```

    ```shell
    helm install --namespace tidb-cluster diag-collector pingcap/diag --version v0.7.1 \
        --set diag.clinicToken=${clinic_token} \
        --set diag.tlsEnabled=false \
        --set diag.clusterRoleEnabled=false
    ```

> 3. The output is as follows:

Reviewer: ditto. This should not be a step.

    ```
    NAME: diag-collector
    LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Mar 15 13:00:44 2022
    NAMESPACE: tidb-cluster
    STATUS: deployed
    REVISION: 1
    NOTES:
    Make sure diag-collector components are running:
      kubectl get pods --namespace tidb-cluster -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=diag-collector
      kubectl get svc --namespace tidb-cluster -l app.kubernetes.io/name=diag-collector
    ```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

### Step 4: Check the status of the Diag Pod

> You can check the status of the Diag Pod with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the status of the Diag Pod using the following command:
```

```shell
kubectl get pods --namespace tidb-admin -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=diag-collector
```

> The output is as follows when the Pod is running normally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output is as follows when the Pod is running properly:
```

#### 1. Request for uploading task

You can upload the collected dataset using the following API:

```bash
curl -s http://${host}:${port}/api/v1/data/${id}/upload -XPOST
{
        "date": "2021-12-10T11:26:39Z",
        "id": "fMcXDZ4hNzs",
        "status": "accepted"
}
```

The response of the preceding command only indicates that the upload task is started, but might not be completed. To check whether the upload task is completed, you can follow the next step.

#### 2. Check the status of uploading task

To check the status of the upload task, you can request using the following API:

```bash
curl -s http://${host}:${port}/api/v1/data/${id}/upload
{
        "date": "2021-12-10T10:23:36Z",
        "id": "fMcXDZ4hNzs",
        "result": "\"https://clinic.pingcap.com:4433/diag/files?uuid=ac6083f81cddf15f-34e3b09da42f74ec-ec4177dce5f3fc70\"",
        "status": "finished"
}
```

When the status of the upload task becomes `finished`, the upload task is completed. At this time, `result` indicates the access link of the uploaded data in the Clinic Server, which is the link you need to send to the staff.

### View data locally (optional)

> The collected data stored in the `/diag/collector/diag-${id}` directory. You can view the data in the Pod with the following two steps.

Reviewer 2: reason: avoid forgetting to update this sentence when more steps are added in future

#### 1. Get `diag-collector-pod-name`

To get the `diag-collector-pod-name`, you can execute the following command:

```bash
kubectl get pod --all-namespaces  | grep diag
```

> The output is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example output is as follows:
```

```
tidb-admin      diag-collector-69bf78478c-nvt47               1/1     Running            0          19h
```

In the preceding output, the name of Diag Pod is `diag-collector-69bf78478c-nvt47` and the `namespace` is `tidb-admin`.

#### 2. View data in Pod

To view data in Pod, you can use the following command. You should replace `${namespace}` with the `namespace` of TiDB Operator (usually `tidb-admin`).

```bash
kubectl exec -n ${namespace} ${diag-collector-pod-name}  -it -- sh
cd  /diag/collector/diag-${id}
```

## Use Clinic Diag to perform a quick check on the cluster

> PingCAP Clinic supports performing a quick check on the health of the cluster. It mainly checks the configuration and finds unreasonable configuration items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use PingCAP Clinic to perform a quick check on cluster health. It mainly checks the configurations for unreasonable configuration items.
```

### How to use

> The following introduces how to use PingCAP Clinic to perform a quick check on the cluster deployed using TiDB Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following introduces how to use PingCAP Clinic to perform a quick check on a cluster deployed using TiDB Operator.
```

> 1. Collect data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Collect data.
```

    For more about how to collect data, see [Use Clinic Diag to collect data](#use-clinic-diag-to-collect-data).

> 2. Diagnose data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Diagnose data.
```

>     You can diagnose the data locally using the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can diagnose the data locally using the following command:
```

    ```bash
    curl -s http://${host}:${port}/api/v1/data/${id}/check -XPOST -d '{"types": ["config"]}'
    ```

    In the preceding output, `id` is the ID of the collection task, which is `fMcXDZ4hNzs` in this case.

>     The result lists potential risks found in configuration and detailed configuration suggestions with corresponding knowledge base links. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The result lists potential risks found in configurations and detailed configuration suggestions with corresponding knowledge base links. For example:
```

Follow these steps to check the user access:

1. Check the user's *Role* and *clusterRole*:

    ```shell
    kubectl describe rolebinding -n ${namespace} | grep ${user_name} -A 7
    kubectl describe clusterrolebinding -n ${namespace} | grep ${user_name} -A 7
    ```

2. Check the user's access of *Role* and *Cluster Role*:

    ```shell
    kubectl describe role ${role_name} -n ${namespace}
    kubectl describe clusterrole ${clusterrole_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

### Step 2: Log in to the Clinic Server and get an access token

When Diag uploads data, the access token is used to identify the user and ensures that the data from Diag is uploaded to the organization created by the user. You need to log in to the [Clinic Server](https://clinic.pingcap.com.cn/portal/#/login) to get a token.

1. Sign up and log in to the Clinic Server.

    Go to [Clinic Server](https://clinic.pingcap.com.cn/portal/#/login) and select **Sign in with AskTUG** to enter the AskTUG community login page. If you do not have an AskTUG account, you can create one on that page.

2. Create an organization.

>     Create an organization on the Clinic Server. Organization is a collection of TiDB clusters. You can upload diagnostic data on the created organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Create an organization on the Clinic Server. An organization is a collection of TiDB clusters. You can upload diagnostic data to the created organization.
```

3. Get an access token.

    To get a token, enter the organization page and click the icon in the lower-right corner of the Clusters page, and select **Get Access Token For Diag Tool**. Make sure that you have copied and saved the displayed token information.

    ![An example of a token](/media/clinic-get-token.png)

    > **Note:**
    >
    > For security reasons, Clinic Server only displays the token upon the token creation. If you have lost the token, delete the old token and create a new one.

### Step 3: Deploy a Diag Pod

Depending on the network connection of the cluster, you can choose one of the following methods to deploy a Diag Pod:

- Quick online deployment: If the cluster has Internet access and you would like to use the default Diag configuration, it is recommended to use the quick online deployment.

> - Regular online deployment: If the cluster has Internet access and you need to customize the Diag configuration, it is recommended to use the regular online deployment.

Reviewer: 用「standard」来表示「普通」会不会更通顺？

> - Regular online deployment: If the cluster has Internet access and you need to customize the Diag configuration, it is recommended to use the regular online deployment.

Author: ```suggestion
- Standard online deployment: If the cluster has Internet access and you need to customize the Diag configuration, it is recommended to use the standard online deployment.
```

- Offline deployment: If the cluster cannot access the Internet, you can use the offline deployment.

> - Least privilege deployment: If all nodes in the cluster are running under the same namespace, you can deploy Diag to the namespace of the cluster to have the least privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Least privilege deployment: If all nodes in the cluster are running under the same namespace, you can deploy Diag to the namespace of the cluster so that Diag has the least privileges.
```

<SimpleTab>
<div label="Quick online deployment">

Deploy Diag using the following `helm` command and the latest Diag image is pulled from the Docker Hub.

```shell
# namespace: the same as that of TiDB Operator
# diag.clinicToken: get your token in "https://clinic.pingcap.com.cn"
helm install --namespace tidb-admin diag-collector pingcap/diag --version v0.7.1 \
        --set diag.clinicToken=${clinic_token}
```

The output is as follows:

```
NAME: diag-collector
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Mar 15 13:00:44 2022
NAMESPACE: tidb-admin
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
NOTES:
Make sure diag-collector components are running:

    kubectl get pods --namespace tidb-admin -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=diag-collector
    kubectl get svc --namespace tidb-admin -l app.kubernetes.io/name=diag-collector
```

</div>

> <div label="Regular online deployment">

Author: ```suggestion
<div label="Standard online deployment">
```

    >
    > To get the token, refer to [Step 2: Log in to the Clinic Server and get an access token](#step-2-log-in-to-the-clinic-server-and-get-an-access-token).

4. Install Diag.

    Install Diag using the following command:

    ```shell
    helm install diag-collector ./diag --namespace=tidb-admin
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > The `namespace` should be the same as that of TiDB Operator. If TiDB Operator is not deployed, deploy TiDB Operator first and then deploy Diag.

5. (Optional) Set a persistent volume.

    This step sets a data volume for Diag to persist its data. To set the volume, you can configure the `diag.volume` field with the volume type in the `${HOME}/diag-collector/values-diag-collector.yaml` file. The following examples are PVC and Host:

    ```
    # Use PVC volume type
    volume:
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: local-storage-diag
    ```

    ```
    # Use Host volume type
    volume:
      hostPath:
        path: /data/diag
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > - Setting a volume on multiple disks is not supported.
    > - All types of StorageClass are supported.

</div>
<div label="Least privilege deployment">

> **Note:**
>

> > Least privilege deployment is to deploy Diag to the namespace of the cluster so that Diag can collect data only in the namespace but not across namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Least privilege deployment is to deploy Diag to the namespace of the cluster so that Diag can collect data only in that namespace but not across namespaces.
```

    - For more information, please visit: https://s.tidb.io/jkdqxudq
    - Check Result:
    PdConfig_172.20.22.100:2379   PdConfig.log.file.max-days:0   warning
    PdConfig_172.20.14.102:2379   PdConfig.log.file.max-days:0   warning
    PdConfig_172.20.15.222:2379   PdConfig.log.file.max-days:0   warning

    #### Rule Name: pdconfig-max-backups
    - RuleID: 210
    - Variation: PdConfig.log.file.max-backups
    - For more information, please visit: https://s.tidb.io/brd9zy53
    - Check Result:
    PdConfig_172.20.22.100:2379   PdConfig.log.file.max-backups:0   warning
    PdConfig_172.20.14.102:2379   PdConfig.log.file.max-backups:0   warning
    PdConfig_172.20.15.222:2379   PdConfig.log.file.max-backups:0   warning

    Result report and record are saved at /diag-fPrz0RnDxRn/report-220208030210
    ```

    In the preceding example:

    - The first part is the basic information about the cluster.
    - The second part is the sampling information.
    - The third part is the diagnostic results, including potential configuration problems. For each configuration potential risk found, Diag provides a corresponding knowledge base link with detailed configuration suggestions.

>     - The last line is the result report and record file path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The last line is the file path of the result report and record.
```
